docs/v2/request-state.md, before:

---
title: Request state
layout: docs-v2
---

# Request state
<p class="lead">
A JavaScript object that is created for each Shopify Cart API Ajax request, 
where Liquid Ajax Cart keeps information about the request.
</p>

## Structure

{%- capture highlight_code -%}
{
  "endpoint": "/cart/add.js",
  "requestBody": {"items": [{"id": 40934235668668, "quantity": 1}], "sections": "my-cart"},
  "requestType": "add",
  "info": {
    "initiator": Element {},
    "cancel": false
  },
  "responseData": {
    "ok": true,
    "status": 200,
    "body": {…}
  },
  "extraResponseData": {
    "ok": true,
    "status": 200,
    "body": {…}
  }
}
{%- endcapture -%}
{% include v2/codeblock.html language="json" code=highlight_code %}

### `endpoint`
A Shopify Cart API endpoint URL of the request.

### `requestBody`
* For a `POST` request, the `requestBody` is either a JSON or a `FormData` object to send to the Shopify Cart API endpoint.
* For a `GET` request, the `requestBody` is `undefined`.

### `info`
An object to keep any additional data, that is set by the caller of a request. 
When you make your request, you can add any properties you want.
There are only two reserved properties, `initiator` and `cancel`, 
that you shouldn't use for storing custom data.

### `info.initiator`
When Liquid Ajax Cart makes a Shopify Cart API Ajax request that is initiated by a user action, 
such as a submitting a product form, modifying cart item quantity input value, or clicking a "remove cart item" button,
Liquid Ajax Cart stores the `HTMLElement` object, that triggered the event, in the `info.initiator` property.

For example, if a user changes a cart item quantity input value with the [`data-ajax-cart-quantity-input`](/v2/data-ajax-cart-quantity-input/) attribute,
Liquid Ajax Cart intercepts the event and executes a `/cart/change.js` Shopify Cart API Ajax request. 
Along with that, Liquid Ajax Cart attaches the input `HTMLElement` object to the `info.initiator` property.

### `info.cancel`
If the `info.cancel` is `true`, then the request won't be executed and the `responseData` property won't exist.
This lets you [cancel a request](/v2/event-request-start/#cancel-a-request) 
in a [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) event listener.

### `responseData`
A Shopify response to the request. 

If the `responseData.ok` is `true`, it means the request was successful (status is in range 200—299).

The `responseData` is `null` if:
* the request was cancelled by the `info.cancel` property;
* the request failed and the response wasn't received, for example because of internet connection; in this case you will find the `fetchError` property.

### `extraResponseData`
Sometimes Liquid Ajax Cart performs an additional Shopify `POST /cart/update.js` request and puts the response to the `extraResponseData` property. 
The additional request happens if:
* there was a `/cart/add.js` request that doesn't return the cart state data — the additional `/cart/update.js` request will bring the updated cart state,
* there was a request with more than 5 sections to render, that exceeds the Shopify limit — the additional `/cart/update.js` request will bring the rest sections HTML.

### `fetchError`
If the request failed and the response wasn't received, for example because of internet connection, you'll find the `fetchError` property:

{%- capture highlight_code -%}
{
  "endpoint": "/cart/add.js",
  "requestBody": {"items": [{"id": 40934235668668, "quantity": 1}], "sections": "my-cart"},
  "requestType": "add",
  "info": {},
  "fetchError": {
    "message": "Failed to fetch",
    "stack": "TypeError: Failed to fetch\n    at e.fetch (h..."
  }
}
{%- endcapture -%}
{% include v2/codeblock.html language="json" code=highlight_code %}

## Interaction

You can access a Request state object in [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) 
and [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-end`](/v2/event-request-end/) event handlers.
In a [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) event handler you can 
modify the request by mutating the `requestBody` object, 
append custom data or [cancel a request](/v2/event-request-start/#cancel-a-request) by mutating the `info` object.

When initiating a Shopify Cart API Ajax request through {% include v2/content/links-to-request-methods.html %},
you can attach custom data by using the `info` option and get the Request state object
in the `firstCallback`, `lastCallback` callback functions.

Commit message:

Finish docs 2.1.0, add "requests" prop to mutation fn returns

docs/v2/request-state.md, after:

---
title: Request state
layout: docs-v2
---

# Request state
<p class="lead">
A JavaScript object that is created for each Shopify Cart API Ajax request, 
where Liquid Ajax Cart keeps information about the request.
</p>

## Structure

{%- capture highlight_code -%}
{
  "endpoint": "/cart/add.js",
  "requestBody": {"items": [{"id": 40934235668668, "quantity": 1}], "sections": "my-cart"},
  "requestType": "add",
  "info": {
    "initiator": Element {},
    "cancel": false
  },
  "responseData": {
    "ok": true,
    "status": 200,
    "body": {…}
  },
  "extraResponseData": {
    "ok": true,
    "status": 200,
    "body": {…}
  }
}
{%- endcapture -%}
{% include v2/codeblock.html language="json" code=highlight_code %}

### `endpoint`
A Shopify Cart API endpoint URL of the request.

### `requestBody`
* For a `POST` request, the `requestBody` is either a JSON or a `FormData` object to send to the Shopify Cart API endpoint.
* For a `GET` request, the `requestBody` is `undefined`.

### `info`
An object to keep any additional data, that is set by the caller of a request. 
When you make your request, you can add any properties you want.
There are only two reserved properties, `initiator` and `cancel`, 
that you shouldn't use for storing custom data.

### `info.initiator`
When Liquid Ajax Cart executes a Shopify Cart API Ajax request that is initiated by a user action, 
such as a submitting a product form, modifying cart item quantity input value, or clicking a "remove cart item" button,
Liquid Ajax Cart stores the `HTMLElement` object, that triggered the event, in the `info.initiator` property.

For example, if a user changes a cart item quantity input value with the [`data-ajax-cart-quantity-input`](/v2/data-ajax-cart-quantity-input/) attribute,
Liquid Ajax Cart intercepts the event and executes a `/cart/change.js` Shopify Cart API Ajax request. 
Along with that, Liquid Ajax Cart attaches the input `HTMLElement` object to the `info.initiator` property.

If a Shopify Cart API Ajax request is initiated by a [cart mutation](/v2/cart-mutations/) function,
the `info.initiator` property has the string value `mutation`.

### `info.cancel`
If the `info.cancel` is `true`, then the request won't be executed and the `responseData` property won't exist.
This lets you [cancel a request](/v2/event-request-start/#cancel-a-request) 
in a [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) event listener.

### `responseData`
A Shopify response to the request. 

If the `responseData.ok` is `true`, it means the request was successful (status is in range 200—299).

The `responseData` is `null` if:
* the request was cancelled by the `info.cancel` property;
* the request failed and the response wasn't received, for example because of internet connection; in this case you will find the `fetchError` property.

### `extraResponseData`
Sometimes Liquid Ajax Cart performs an additional Shopify `POST /cart/update.js` request and puts the response to the `extraResponseData` property. 
The additional request happens if:
* there was a `/cart/add.js` request that doesn't return the cart state data — the additional `/cart/update.js` request will bring the updated cart state,
* there was a request with more than 5 sections to render, that exceeds the Shopify limit — the additional `/cart/update.js` request will bring the rest sections HTML.

### `fetchError`
If the request failed and the response wasn't received, for example because of internet connection, you'll find the `fetchError` property:

{%- capture highlight_code -%}
{
  "endpoint": "/cart/add.js",
  "requestBody": {"items": [{"id": 40934235668668, "quantity": 1}], "sections": "my-cart"},
  "requestType": "add",
  "info": {},
  "fetchError": {
    "message": "Failed to fetch",
    "stack": "TypeError: Failed to fetch\n    at e.fetch (h..."
  }
}
{%- endcapture -%}
{% include v2/codeblock.html language="json" code=highlight_code %}

## Interaction

You can access a Request state object in [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) 
and [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-end`](/v2/event-request-end/) event handlers.
In a [`liquid-ajax-cart:request-start`](/v2/event-request-start/) event handler you can 
modify the request by mutating the `requestBody` object, 
append custom data or [cancel a request](/v2/event-request-start/#cancel-a-request) by mutating the `info` object.

When initiating a Shopify Cart API Ajax request through {% include v2/content/links-to-request-methods.html %},
you can attach custom data by using the `info` option and get the Request state object
in the `firstCallback`, `lastCallback` callback functions.
